All right?
So that's how local dependencies
are handled.
But remote dependencies are handled
a little bit differently.
So, remote dependencies are what we would
today called a call npm packages and
these are the things that
you would install from npm.
It's code that you consume
that someone else's written.
Deno has a list of approved
third party modules.
So, It's sort of starting to
create its own centralized
set of libraries here,
kind of like npm all over again.
But you can see something
like lodash is in here.
Let's see which one do we wanna use up?
So there's a path module.
So let's look at that.
In Node if we wanted to get the path for
something, so
let's say we have, let's just do this.
Actually, we can just do
it in our app file here.
So let's close this out.
We don't want to reverse
the string anymore.
In Node we can do const
path = require path.
And then you can do something like
this console.log(path.basename.
And then if you did in a folder/
folder/ folder/ file.txt.
What this returns is, if you ran this,
what it would return is file.txt.
That's the base name.
So Deno doesn't have a path and so
we have to import a dependency to do that.
And so we're gonna import Deno standard
library to actually see how Deno
does this.
So Deno's standard library is here.
Let's go back to Third Party Modules.
So if we go to Standard Library.
So this is the standard library here.
You can see all of the things
that are in its standard library.
Like datetime, and the fs module.
All the stuff that you would
normally see with Node.
It mimics the node API really,
really well.
So let's look at how we would do that.
What we need to do is import it by URL.
So we're gonna do that here.
So let's just grab this,
and then go back and
see what happens when we try to do this.
So we're just gonna
import this thing by URL.
And you can see that Visual Studio code
is actually fine with this because
I've imported this before.
If you don't wanna specify the version
of the file, you can take this out and
it will just give you the latest version,
which I've already got here.
And if we were to click on this,
it would take us to the actual file
on my local machine where
this is already cached.
But now that we've got this
we can do path.basename.
So let's run this again.
So let's do deno run
app.ts, can't you,
exercise app.ts?
You know what I did,
we're in the cache directory again.
So let's swap out of that.
And in fact, just for fun, let's do this.
Let's clear the cache.
So let's clear let's go to deps.
rm -rf https.
Cool.
That's gone.
So now let's reload the Window.
Cuz I wanna show you what Deno does
here when it doesn't recognize
your dependencies.
So it should,yeah so
see it's got a squiggly and
it's like I don't know what this is.
Could not find module this mod.ts locally,
by the way, this mod,
you're gonna see this a lot in Deno this
is just a standard short for module.
That's all it is.
But it threw me off when I first saw it.
Okay, so
if we do control period here in VS code,
it says do you want me to fetch
the module we're gonna say yeah, so
it's going to fetch it and bring it
down and stick it in that cache folder.
Then now we can use it, right?
And so we have if we do path,
then we have all of the different
things that are on this.
And so we can run this.
Let's run it.
Nope.
Again, in the cache directory.
Try that again.
Exercise.
Let's run this and it'll give us.
Hopefully, yeah, file.txt.
And so this is how dependencies
are included in Deno
projects is by this URL and
then it gets copied down to your
cache directory and
then it just kind of hangs out there.
And then unless you actually change
the version or import it again,
it forced the cache to update and
it doesn't actually change.
But we know that Deno doesn't actually
download dependencies every single time we
run the program.
It just does it the first time.
And then it downloads it to that
depth cache and then it stays there.
If we were to take a look like let's say,
let's do I don't know.
Let's see, I'm trying to figure out,
what did I have you do in the exercise?
We're looking at, Yeah, if we were to
use something like the https server, that
would Wind up in a different folder here.
And there are a lot of different files
that we could get inside of that folder
as it grows, we have more and
more dependencies.
We can get actually more info
about like the dependencies that
this specific path module has.
If we just run deno info.
Now we could run deno info
on this file here directly.
We could actually do this.
We wanted to know some more about it.
I think we can just do,
no, let me do deno info.
Just paste this in.
Yeah.
And then we get a dependency graph that
shows us all of the different things.
So when we use path and we're in path, and
it's gonna bring in all this stuff
as well, path depends on util.
It depends on common which depends on
separator, which depends on OS, and so
on and so forth.
And so this is how you can examine
the dependencies that you've got.
And if we were to go to
that deno cache folder,
you would see all of these
different files in there.
Now, I wanna take a moment and address
sort of the elephant in the room or
what I frequently hear people say,
which is that importing from URLs
feels like completely nuts and insane.
And I wanna validate that but say that
we've already established the Deno wants
to stay as close to browser
conventions as possible.
And in that case,
importing from a URL should feel less
achy because that's just how we do it.
But it isn't very pleasant to look at,
right?
Let's just be honest.
Okay, seeing this in code
just doesn't feel great.
Having a URL here.
I mean, really, we're gonna write code and
have URLs just hanging out
all over in our imports.
That doesn't sound great.
So what Deno recommends that
you do is they recommend that
you create a file inside of your
project that you call depths.ts.
So let's do that depths.ts.
So again,
this is just a convention, right.
This is nothing special.
And then you would take all
of your URL imports here.
And you would stick them inside of this
and then you would export from this
file what you needed so export,
here we're just going to export path.
And then in our app.ts file
instead of importing path,
we would do import path from depths.ts.
And so all of the URL weirdness is sort
of hidden away in this depths file and it
doesn't leak all over into your projects
because I don't think you would want that.
And we'll see later on,
we're gonna use a lot more dependencies.
You'll see how this it
makes it look cleaner.